In this lecture, you'll learn about the private address ranges.
These were documented by the IETF, that's Internet Engineering Task Force, in RFC 1918. RFC stands for Requests
For Comments. So when the IETF released some documentation, they release it as an RFC number, meaning
that other engineers can comment on it and maybe suggest improvements.
But the RFC is still a finished standard as well,
so the final standard, as of today, for private IP addressing is RFC 1918.
There are a lot of other RFCs out there as well, for pretty much every technology,
but if you asked me to name an RFC number,
then
the only one that I probably could is RFC 1918 for private addresses.
Because if you're in conversation with somebody, it's quite common to call it an RFC 1918 address.
Sticking with our theme of how the Internet was originally designed to work,
private IP addresses were originally for hosts that should not be connected to the Internet. Because,
obviously, if you're an organization and you got a part of your network that you don't want to be connected
to the Internet, you're not going to pay for public IP addresses for those hosts.
That would be a waste of money paying for IP addresses that are never going to be used. So a way that
you could save money is by using private IP addresses on there instead.
The other benefit you get from it is that the hosts are not going to be connected to the Internet,
so it makes them more secure as well,
and it locks down that they can't talk on the Internet.
So if you're thinking, "Well, why would anybody ever do that?"
Maybe it's a highly secured environment,
like maybe it's a bank, and the bank has got a part of their network that they want to keep completely off
the Internet for security reasons.
They would use private IP addresses there.
Another possible example is maybe you've got a high school, and they've got PCs there,
but the school authorities don't want the kids to be able to get on the Internet.
Again, they would use private IP addresses there. So, the addresses that are private,
there's a range in each of the different Classes A, B, and C. In Class A, we've got to 10.0.0.0
to 10.255.255.255, and that uses the standard Class A subnet mask
of /8.
So we can also write it as 10.0.0.0/8 or 10.0.0.0 with the subnet
mask 255.0.0.0. The Class B private
range is 172.16.0.0 to 172.31.255.255.
That is 172.16.0.0/12, so the Class B range does not use the default subnet
mask of /16. And the Class C range of private addresses is 192.168.0.0 to
192.168.255.255.
So the Class C range use, again, it's not the default mask. It uses a /16, which is the normal default
mask for a Class B network.
Okay, so those are the three ranges of private addresses. You want to have these committed to memory.
So just like you're going to commit to memory what the range is for Class A,
Class B, and Class C,
also remember what the ranges are that are used for
the private addresses.
This is not just for the CCNA exam. Really, you're expected to know this off the top of your head when
you're working in the real world as well because you'll see the RFC 1918 addresses are used a lot
in the real world.
I'll get to the reason for that very soon
in this lecture. So, let's look at an example of where we would use private addresses
back in the day when we wanted to keep our hosts off of the Internet.
So, this is a secured environment.
We've got Bank A on the left, we've got Bank B on the right. Bank A have got a public part of their
network that is used for their staff who are allowed to access the Internet
that's at
175.11.0.0
/24.
And then they've got a different part of their network, which is maybe where they have some very sensitive
servers that they want to keep off the Internet, and they put on there the private address 10.10.10.0.
Bank B, their public address is 196.14.10.0, and they've also got a
private range which is 172.18.5.0/24.
Okay, an example,
example number 2, you can see that here, Bank A and Bank B are both using 192.168.10.0.
That's fine. They don't have any connectivity to each other anyway because they're on completely
separate networks. So you'll find that with private addresses, loads of organizations all over the world
will be using the same private address ranges. They can't use the same public address ranges because
we need to have connectivity to each other over the Internet. But the private addresses don't have any
connectivity outside the organization, so those addresses can be reused over and over again.
Okay, let's revisit the IPv4 global address space problem.
So, the designers of IPv4 did not realize how big the Internet was going to get, and when they first
designed the IPv4 format, they thought that 4.3 billion addresses is going to be more
than enough for what would be required.
But the problem is, we know today that 4.3 billion is nowhere near enough. So, another
problem is that the protocol is not efficient in the way that it allocates addresses as well.
Again, because they thought that they had more than enough addresses, they didn't worry about wasting
addresses.
For example, the 127.0.0.0 address. They're wasting an entire Class A range just for the loopback testing. Also,
the way that large address blocks were given to organizations who were not using anywhere near as many
as the actual addresses they were given. So the IPv4 address space,
really, it's not big enough for how many addresses we actually need on the Internet today.
So, they actually run out of addresses. Quite a while ago, back in the late 1980s, they realized
that they were going to run out of addresses, so they started working on a solution to the problem.
And in the 1990s, the solution that was developed was IPv6. So, the addresses we've been talking about up
to this point in the course has been the IPv4. IPv6 addresses have got a different format, where IPv4
addresses are 32 bits long, IPv6 are 128 bits long. But the address space is not just four times
as big as the IPv4 is. It's actually exponentially bigger than that because we keep doubling it every
time we add a bit. And the IPv6 address space is actually 7.9x10 to the power of
28 times as many addresses as IPv4.
So there is a huge amount of addresses with IPv6, and it was developed in such a way that they should
never run out of addresses again.
But there's also a problem with IPv6,
just like there was a problem with IPv4. The main issue is that there's not a seamless migration
path from IPv4 to IPv6.
So if you're an organization, you've already got your host deployed, and you've got IPv4 addresses
on there, and you've done all of your IPv4 addressing design,
it's not easy.
You can't just flick a switch and convert that to IPv6 because the address format is completely different.
It's not seamlessly backwards compatible with IPv4.
So it's quite a big project to migrate from IPv4 to IPv6
if you're already an existing organization. So because of that, NAT, Network Address Translation was implemented
as a temporary stop gap before everybody could convert to IPv6. And the way it works is an organization
can use those RFC 1918
private IP addresses on their inside network, which are not publicly routable, so they don't work on the
public Internet. But what they can do with those addresses is on the way out, they can convert them to
the public IP address on the outside.
So if you're using a private IP address on the inside, whenever you communicate with anybody out on the public
Internet, when the traffic gets to them, it looks like it's coming from a public IP address,
so they're able to send the traffic back to you.
And many hosts in the inside, so many hosts in the inside using those private IP addresses, can share a few or
even just a single public IP address on the outside. So, let's have a look and see how this works.
You see, we've got Office A on the left, and they've bought a small range of public IP addresses, which is
175.11.0.1/28, which gives them 14 addresses, and they're using the private addresses
on the inside of 192.18.10.0/24, and they've got 200 hosts on the
inside.
Well, they're able to convert or translate those private addresses on the inside to the public addresses
on the outside whenever they communicate with anybody on the Internet.
So if we didn't have private addresses and NAT, they would have required 200 public IP addresses for
those hosts on the inside.
But now, they're doing it with just 14,
and actually, they could have done it with just 1 if they wanted to.
So, they're using private addresses and NAT. This saves loads of addresses in the IPv4 public address
space.
It also saves organizations money as well because they don't need to pay for those public IP addresses.